Eache phase of the lifecycle need to be properly secured.
Approfondisci side-channel attacks on cryptographic algorithms

### Identity and digital identity
An identity is a set of attributes related to an entity, such as a person or an organization. Each attribute is a characteristic or property of an entity that can be used to describe its state, appearance, or other aspects; examples of attributes include an email address, telephone number or physical address. A digital identity is an identity whose attributes are stored and transmitted in digital form. 

### Digital identity's lifecycle
The digital identity’s lifecycle consists of four phases. 
First one is the enrollment or onboarding, and it’s the process through which an applicant applies to become a subscriber of an identity system which then has to validate the applicant’s identity. After this step the user receives a credential or authenticator from a Credential Service Provider (CSP). 
The second and third steps are repeated multiple times throughout the lifetime of the digital identity. Authentication is the process of verifying the identity of a user, process, or device, and it’s often the prerequisite to allowing access to a system’s resources. The next step is called authorization or access control, and it’s when the user’s permissions to access data are checked, and it’s typically automated by evaluating a subject’s attributes. The last step is deregistration, and it’s what ends the relationship between the entity and the provider.

### Enrollment
Enrollment is the first phase of a digital identity’s lifecycle. It starts with the resolution phase, i.e. the collection of Personal Identifiable Information (PII) and two forms of identity evidence from the applicant. PII include at least the full name, date of birth and home address of the applicant, while forms of identity evidence can be the applicant’s ID card, passport or driver’s licence. After the resolution phase, comes the validation of the information supplied by checking an authoritative source. In this step the validity and accuracy of the information given is checked, by comparing the data on the forms of identity given and checking with the respective issuing sources. At last we have the verification step, where the linkage between the claimed identity and real-life existance of the subject is confirmed and established. Examples of this last step include checking in person if the applicant is the person on the ID and licence’s picture or checking if the applicant is in possession of the phone number or email address given.

### Identity assurance levels
To convey the degree of confidence that the applicant’s claimed identity is their real identity we rely on the Identity Assurance Levels (IALs). IAL 1 is the weakest and it means that the attributes collected are self-asserted or should be treated as such. IAL 2 required either remote or in-person identity proofing. IAL 3 is the strongest; it requires in-person identity proofing and that the identifying attributes must be verified by an authorized representative through examination of physical documentation.

### Authentication
Authentication is the process of verifying the identity of a user, process, or device; the claimant must demonstrate to the verifier that they are indeed the one that they claim to be. In particular, when this is accomplished by providing a user name and one or more authentication factors then it’s called user authentication. The most common way to implement user authentication is through password authentication.

### Passwords
Passwords are a way to implement user authentication by providing a password along with the user name during the authentication process. A password is a secret shared between the user and the system that follows precise requirements on its length and on the character it’s made of.
For decades the consensus was to implement strict passwords requirements, consisting of uppercase and lower case letters, numbers and symbols; NIST more recently suggested the use of strong passwords, where strong means easy to remember, hard to guess. They could be four-word phrases, which do not require special characters and are still strong, with the added benefit that they can be easily memorized by a human. 
Bootstrapping this system is actually quite hard. Let’s analyze the situation of passwords; this does not take into consideration multi-factor authentication, only the part regarding the password string. If the password is provided by the service to the user, it could be intercepted in transit (SMS, email, physical envelope). To mitigate this secure transit channels should be implemented. If a default password is associated to the account, it should be changed as soon as possible. If the password is chosen by the user, they could use easy-to-guess passwords or write down complicated passwords in an unsecure location. Mitigations include not allowing commonly used passwords, and not including password hints. If the user writes down their password in an unsecure location, nothing can be done; if the user chooses an easy to guess password, then it depends on the information available to the attackers. If the attackers don’t have access to the password file or database, the risk can be mitigated by limiting the number of password attempts and sending notifications to the user when a failed attempt occurs; this prevents one form of brute forcing. If the attackers have access to the password file or database, the first mitigation is saving the password in every way but plaintext. The suggested technique is to hash the passwords, which mitigates brute forcing (as per the current computational power available), but guessing one password still puts at risk all the users that used that password. Another threat is dictionary attacks, collections of hashes computed once and that can be checked against the passwords the attacker is trying to steal. To mitigate this, salting can be employed, which means adding a bit of pseudo-random information to the password before hashing; this prevents many forms of dictionary attacks and prevents gaining information about multiple users with the same password. Other than all of this, services should be aware of data breaches and compare stolen data with their own in order to protect users that used the same password there, and start the reset procedure (credential stuffing). Another final mitigation would be requiring passwords to be changed regularly by setting an expiration date. Two other threats for passwords are spoofing and phishing. During password spoofing an attacker pretends to be the user and tries to get the service to tell them the password associated to their victim, or try to get it changed to something they choose. To mitigate this the service should be able to verify the identity of the user even without the password by employing another form of authentication (in-person for example). During password phishing the attacker impersonates the system to trick a user into releasing the password to the attacker; they’re the main cause of password leakage, and can be mitigated by training the users and increasing their awareness (check the source, name, https (not enough alone!)). 

### Brute force
A brute force or exhaustive search attack consists in trying all the possible combinations of valid symbols up to a certain length in order to guess passwords. Nowadays a lot of computational power is available at a reasonable cost, meaning that carrying out a brute force attack on passwords of 8-16 characters doesn’t require much effort. That is not the case when considering the output of hash functions, which is usually longer and still requires a lot of effort to guess. Another way to guess passwords is to search through a restricted name space, such as passwords associated with a user, something like their name, the names of friends or relatives, car brand, phone number, or just trying popular passwords. If the attackers do not have access to all the passwords stored, bruteforcing can be mitigated by limiting the login attempts. Otherwise, all the other techniques should be employed.

### Dictionary attacks
Dictionary attacks consist in trying every passwords from an on-line dictionary, which is a collection of passwords or user name and password pairs that have been found to be commonly used. Many dictionaries are derived from large data breaches, which is what makes those attacks so effective. Even hashed passwords are subject to this attack; a service could mitigate this risk by implementing salting.